h1. Hoboken: Urban Renewal

|*Based On:*||"Hoboken":http://github.com/jchupp/hoboken/tree by Jeff Chupp|
|*Forked and Spooned by:*||Mike Green "mike.is.green@gmail.com":mailto:mike.is.green@gmail.com|


h2. About

*Hoboken: Urban Renewal* is my attempt to customize Hoboken wiki to fit my needs, much like the yuppies did with the real Hoboken, NJ in the late 1990's. Hoboken itself is a really awesome, very simple wiki by "Jeff Chupp":http://semanticart.com. This fork has added functionality that includes:

* file upload interface
* drag-n-drop embedding of links & images in articles
* "MarkItUp":http://markitup.jaysalvat.com/ wikitext editor
* templates in ERB instead of Haml _(just my personal preference)_
* user authentication _(incomplete)_
* support for tagging, thanks to dm-tags _(incomplete)_

h2. Required Gems

* dm-core
* dm-more
** dm-is-versioned
** dm-timestamps
** dm-aggregates
** dm-tags
** dm-validations
* haml
* sinatra
* wikitext

dm-is-versioned, dm-aggregates, dm-tags and dm-timestamps are part of *dm-more*.  You'll need at least 0.9.7.  You also need a dm compatible database adapter (sqlite3, mysql, etc).

You can install wikitext from "http://github.com/stephenjudkins/ruby-wikitext/tree/master":http://github.com/stephenjudkins/ruby-wikitext/tree/master.

h2. How To

First copy (or rename) @config.yml.template@ to @config.yml@ in the app root. If you want to use something besides the default datamapper connection string specified in the config you can change it as you wish. You should then run
<pre>
$ rake migrate:all
</pre>
To create the database and your username and password. Now you're ready to run Sinatra's development server:
<pre>
$ ruby wiki.rb
</pre>
then visit: @http://0.0.0.0:4567/@ or visit @http://0.0.0.0:4567/Whatever@ to start creating a page named "Whatever".

Standard WikiText applies as per the wikitext gem. Versioning is active, though complex diffs on versions aren't yet available and merging is still rudimentary.

When rendering a wiki page, items that exist in the database as other pages will be automatically linked to.

If you don't want just anybody to be able to register for a username and password (recommended), then comment out the signup action in @routes/auth.rb@. With that action disabled, the only way to create a new user is to use the included Rake task like so:
<pre>
	$ rake user:new
</pre>
and follow the prompts for the user's email address and password.

h2. NOTE

if you get complaints along the lines of
<pre>
    Gem::Exception: can't activate data_objects (= 0.9.7, runtime), already activated data_objects-0.9.9
</pre>
then you should specify a version of data\_objects (in wiki.rb underneath "require 'sinatra'") like so
<pre>
    gem 'data_objects', '0.9.7'
</pre>

h2. ToDo

* diffs on versions